---
date: 2017-11-28
header:
  teaser: /img/imgplaceholder
  overlay_image: /img/imgplaceholder
  overlay_filter: 0.8
toc: true
toc_label: "Contents"
--- 
I am inserting a test file in the site to see if I can launch models I am
working on, within windows mixed reality. Maybe I can create a workflow from
this for design.

I was able to import this house model, without any textures or materials bu
directly pasting the web link in the embed function of squarespace. However,
the second model did not import. It has materials added. I tested it many
ways. Waited for the embed function to eventually work. The help section
suggests to wait and it will work. It does not.

Instead, I decided to just add some text to the link while putting it in. It
seems that if you add "/c" or "/" and any letter or number, it then works.
Maybe this is a regex issue, if they use it. I do not know, but adding any
character after a forward slash does it. Weird.

Move camera: 1 finger drag or Left Mouse ButtonPan: 2-finger drag or Right
Mouse Button or SHIFT+ Left Mouse ButtonZoom on object: Double-tap or Double-
click on objectZoom out: Double-tap or Double-click on backgroundZoom: Pinch
in/out or Mousewheel or CTRL + Left Mouse Button

Move camera: 1 finger drag or Left Mouse ButtonPan: 2-finger drag or Right
Mouse Button or SHIFT+ Left Mouse ButtonZoom on object: Double-tap or Double-
click on objectZoom out: Double-tap or Double-click on backgroundZoom: Pinch
in/out or Mousewheel or CTRL + Left Mouse Button

This is a model of the CNCRPPRO48x96 by CNCrouterParts.com. They sent this
model to me when I was modeling the room it would be within. I am uploading
this as a test to see if a complex model will render fine in different webvr
browsers.

This is a model of a stepper controlled dispensing gun that I have been
working on for the past few months in my spare time. I am uploading this now
to test rendering in webvr for demonstration purposes.

