---
date: 2017-11-23
header:
  teaser: /img/imgplaceholder
  overlay_image: /img/imgplaceholder
  overlay_filter: 0.8
toc: true
toc_label: "Contents"
--- 
I ordered a 4th axis from [AliExpress
](https://www.aliexpress.com/item/3-Jaw-100mm-Chuck-4th-Axis-Reduction-
Ratio-50-1-Gapless-Harmonic-Gearbox-Rotary-Axis-
Morse2/32810517253.html?spm=a2g0s.9042311.0.0.yg7XK5)the other day. There was
a sale, so I got it in hand within a week and it cost me around $400 shipped.
Now that I have it, I need to figure out how in the world to use it.

![4thAxis.jpg](/img/4thAxis.jpg)

[This guy](https://mkmra2.blogspot.com/2016/07/cnc-router-rotary-
axis.html?showComment=1511352072221#c8932560345732086727) set his up in almost
the same way that I am. I purchsed a harmonic drive version that has a gear
ratio of 100:1. I believe his is 4:1. With a NEMA 34 stepper, I guess it has
the force needed to hold the work. However, I am using NEMA 23 and I would
like to have as high of a resolution as possible as well as the added holding
strength.

I have posted on the CNCZone forums about modifying or adding simultaneous
machining using a post processor for Mach3 through Fusion360. I recevied a
reply from one person stating that continuous machining is coming to Fusion
soon. I have no real understanding of the differences yet. I need to read up
on those details. He said that I need to use a hack to get it working in a way
that wraps the plane around the axis. The first person I linked to has his set
up in a way that he basically does one plane and then rotates to the next. I
am looking for the ability to machine around the axis while turning. I am sure
that I can get this capability form something. I would rather not hack it
together.

I will be working on this until I have have it functioning properly. Then I
can make table legs, ornate ones.

