\--- layout: post title: Just bought a large CNC router categories: [] tags:
[] status: publish type: post published: true meta: {} \---

3 weeks until I have my shipment, and then I will be diving in to this large
format CNC router. I purchased mine from
[CNCrouterparts](http://www.cncrouterparts.com) and so far they have been
great with responses to questions and concerns. They even called me after I
placed my order.

![A render without the legs.](/img/CNCBED)

A render without the legs.

The company is located in Washington, near Seattle. And they use 8020
extrusions in their design, the 8020 is shipped separate direct from the
manufacturer. This means that 8020 then processes the extrusion for threading
and whatever other customizing is needed. Great way to lessen the work load of
the company.

I rarely ever actually post anything to this site anymore, and I do so many
projects that adding a blog and videos to it seems daunting. I need a work
flow for this. So, I plan on documenting my build process, and eventually
uploading videos to youtube and then detailing parts of the build on here.
There are plenty of forums dedicated to this purpose, but they are hard to
navigate until you find your niche.

The machine I am putting together is the CRP4896 pro. I chose to go with the
NEMA 23 for now. I could not justify the cost of adding the 34. I also have
not purchased the spindle they sell. It looks pretty bad ass though. So it may
come to me in time. we will see.

So for now, I plan on rearranging my shop again and adding a legit dust
collection system. Probably adding a small building outside the house to
accommodate the vacuum system. This way I have less noise and any small
particles that would escape, are not in my shop or in my lungs. I may post
that build before I start to post about the CNC buiild.

I am excited to move on to this project. Every time I add a new skill, I tend
to be able to further other abilities by adding what I have learned along the
way. This would have never happened if I did not first learn how to make molds
by hand. That made me get a 3d printer, then another, then rebuilding them and
programming them to work for my purpose. Then small CNCs and now my monster. I
am going to have the most ridiculous wall panels in my home...

