\--- layout: post title: Brass branding Iron on the CNC categories: [] tags:
[] status: publish type: post published: true meta: _thumbnail_id: '51' \---

I have been wanting to try this for a while. I used a 12x2x.25 inch brass bar
to carve my logo out of. Using Vectric Aspire, I was able to import my svg
file and then post the gcode to mach3.

![](/img/hqdefault.jpg)

I ran into several issues and ended up having to try 3 times before getting it
right. I also had to order a smaller endmill to finish the cuts. First I used
a 1/16 inch bit to clear most of the material out and then used a 1mm endmill
to carve as much as it could out of it. I was taking .02" depths to cut. Then
I used a 4.85 degree tapered endmill with a .8 mm ball nose tip at a height of
.01" to clear the remaining edges. It did leave a couple of spots in which the
material was very thin. But the end result did not show that in the burn I
did.

![20180207_071416.jpg](/img/20180207_071416.jpg)

![WoodBurned.jpg](/img/WoodBurned.jpg)

next I attempted to braze the stamp to a brass rod. I am not sure what I did
wrong, but this is the first time I have attempted brazing and it did not
work. The flux melted, but I could not get the rod to melt into the void. I
did get it to melt one time, but it globbed up and fell off immediately. i was
fooled into thinking it might have worked because the flux stuck the parts
together well, until heated again. Then I just placed the stamp onto the board
and heated it directly. It worked, but I need to figure out the brazing issues
I am having.

I used an Oxygen-Propane glass torch and I got the brass dull red and it still
did not work. I am obviously doing something wrong and the youtube videos I
have found on brazing look easy enough to replicate, so I may have the wrong
rods, or the second material I am using is not brass. I found it, it looks
like brass, so I do not know as of now. I will keep at it and may try to tap
what little material is left in the back to attach it to a threaded rod
instead. But I really want brazing to work.

Edit:

I was able to finally get the rod attached. It is not pretty, but it finally
worked. Definitely had to get it hotter than I did previously.

![](/img/image-asset.jpeg)

