---
date: 2019-02-14
header:
  teaser: /img/ProbeCircuit.PNG
  overlay_image: /img/ProbeCircuit.PNG
  overlay_filter: 0.8
toc: true
toc_label: "Contents"
--- 
Mach3 has only 1 probe input available. So if you have the corner finding
plate set up on the machine and you want to connect a touch probe, you will
need to make a simple circuit to invert the signal so that you can have both a
normally connected and normally closed inputs on the same pin.

I have used transistors before in other projects, but because there are no
schematics available for the break out board in the plug-n-play kit, I had to
do some experimenting. I took pictures of everything so that I could grab the
model numbers off of the chips I could see. The Ethernet smoothstepper has 5v
tolerant pins. The Break out board has 12v inputs and outputs. A optocoupler
is on every input to allow the 12v to signal the 5v without destroying it.

This all came together in a forum, but this post is to reconcile the relevant
information. That and I can look at this for info in the future. Here is the
[forum thread link](https://www.cnczone.com/forums/cnc-router-
parts/373890-4th-axis-touch-probing.html).

Supplies used:

  * 1 1K resistor

  * 2 10K resistors

  * M12 field wire-able connector, female. I had a few M12 pigtails in my stock already

  * Hookup wire

  * Some sort of PCB to connect everything, unless you want to try and deadbug the circuit. 

  * 2N2222a transistor - $5.97 for 200 of them at [amazon](https://www.amazon.com/McIgIcM-2n2222-transistor-Through-2n2222a/dp/B06XPWS52G/ref=sr_1_2?ie=UTF8&qid=1550138826&sr=8-2&keywords=2n2222a)

![ProbeCircuit.PNG](/img/ProbeCircuit.PNG)

Bear in mind that the break out board optocoupler has a 1.2K resistor on the
input. That being said, I still have a 1K resistor on the output of the
transistor because I thought it would be floating without it. It should be
fine without that resistor, because the input should do the work of pulling
the input down. However, the circuit still works fine and since it was
working, I did not change it.

![2501 optocoupler and 1.2k
resistor](/img/20190207_091146.jpg)

2501 optocoupler and 1.2k resistor

The input M12 connectors are wired based off of standard M12 colors.

Black is the normally open input wire. On the touch plate this is the wire
connected to the body inside with a spade connector.

Blue is the ground wire . On the plate it is connected to the red ground clip
wire.

Brown is the 12V output available. On the plate, it is cut close to the end of
the wire. You will need to remove the wire bundle and remove the sheath enough
to expose as much as is needed.

White is the normally closed input connection. This is unused in this project.
However, if you do not have a touch plate, you can use this as the input as
normally connected without an inverter.

![CapturePlug.jpg](/img/CapturePlug.jpg)

When I wired my setup, I decided to run a pigtail out of the touch plate. The
circuit board is attached to the end of my probe wire bundle. If you were to
keep the circuit connected and just disconnect the probe, then the signal
would always be on. You could bypass this by adding a switch to connect the
probe signal pins while disconnected. It was easier to leave it out when I
disconnect. Plus, the pigtail takes up little room and extends the probe
connection beyond what the touch plate can reach.

I am thinking about ordering a few boards from JLCPCB with the circuit set up
on it. I may add several of the circuits, with switches to change each input
from normally closed to normally open when needed. This way you could have as
many plates and probes as you want available on the one port. Then either
machine, 3D print, or use an off the shelf project box to add M12 in and out
ports. 1 to connect to the break out board and as many inputs as you would
want on the other side. Mount this to the case, or to the frame of the CNC to
easily extend Machs limited probe input.

  

The whole reason for me needing this, originally, is to use with my 4th axis.
So far I have been basically eyeing the alignment and doing some rough
calculations to get to center. With the probe, I can write a macro to measure
the distance between two sides of a known shaft, then divide for center. Touch
off of the top of said center and then divide the known shaft diameter in half
to set the Z zero location. I can then make sure the other side is aligned as
well as it can be and verify this. I could also use some macros that exist out
there to account for any offset in the x alignment and not have to fine tune
the physical position of the other end. The G-code could just account for the
deviation in alignment.

The next goal, now that the probe is working, is to switch over to the [2010
screenset](http://www.thecncwoodworker.com/2010.html). I have been wanting to
do this for over a year and did not understand how to set it up until
recently. After playing with things in mach in simulation mode, I am fairly
certain everything will work out. I also started modifying the screenset with
my own buttons and whatnot. This could get out of hand. I am going to try and
converge several screensets that have great macros within them, but do not
work together. One for probing in the 4th axis to create point clouds of
objects to wrap designs around. The squirrel probe screenset with 4th axis
point cloud digitizing is in the [forums
here.](https://www.cnczone.com/forums/mach-wizards-macros-amp-
addons/287798-mach3-probe-routines-full-auto-rectangles-angle.html)

This is a nice set of macros, but is for the default screenset. It will take
lots of time to convert and add it to my screenset setup. After playing with
it I will probably devote the time. No idea when, could be another year. One
other thing that I need before I can use it is homing on the 4th axis. I think
I can accomplish this in a few different ways. I could use an optical encoder
with 1 slit at 0 and rotate until it triggers. Having homing, after reading
about it, makes sense on the 4th. Being able to repeat location instead of
just setting whatever current angle to 0, would allow for mounting different
types of workholding, like tombstones. Not to mention I could recover from a
crash or something much easier than attempting to reset zero position after
the fact. This will come in time, too many other things to do at this point.
Seems like I spend most of my time creating tools instead of using them. I
need to start using them more.

Just to make sure this information is not buried in the forums, I need to add
this here. The 2010 screenset requires that the Z 0 position is located at the
inverted values of the CNCRouterPrts setup. This means that the machine
location of soft max needs to change from 8 to 0, soft min from 0 to -8 and I
am pretty sure slow zone needs to invert to -1. Then the macros should work. I
also created a button on the screenset to run the NCRouterParts corner finding
plate macro. First I made it a macro that could be called with M997 and then
used the button to run the M997 command. Now everything that was available in
the default screenset, is available in 2010. I used machscreen to make the
modifications.

![Original homing from CNCRouterParts](/img/OGHoming.PNG)

Original homing from CNCRouterParts

![Changes for 2010 screenset](/img/Capture.PNG)

Changes for 2010 screenset

  
This should be enough information to move forward. Enough documenting, I need
to finish cabinetsâ€¦.

