---
date: 2019-01-21
header:
  teaser: /img/imgplaceholder
  overlay_image: /img/imgplaceholder
  overlay_filter: 0.8
toc: true
toc_label: "Contents"
--- 
I do not know if it is an actual problem to solve, but I also do not want to
have to replace the linear bearings on my gantry until absolutely necessary. I
know they have wipers on them, but small amounts of anything could make it
inside of them. At least I think so.

![Pretty dirty](/img/Bearing+Dirty)

Pretty dirty

To make it easier to clean the areas off and protect the bearings, I looked
into all the options I could think of. There were not any options available
that were not custom or prohibitively expensive. Instead I purchased a bunch
of outdoor material from [Fabric Wholesale
Direct](https://www.fabricwholesaledirect.com/collections/canvas-
fabric/products/waterproof-outdoor-canvas-fabric). The 5 yards of fabric was
$36.69 shipped. I had to buy that much for length and I can either use more if
this ever wears out, or use it on something else. It is heavy duty waterproof
polyester in black. I cut it to length, spray glued and folded it in half
along the length to double up the material and keep the edges that are frayed
on the internal area.

Then I designed a [couple of plates](https://a360.co/2FF01qr) to 3D print that
would hold the fabric and attach it to the extrusion frame. They bolt onto the
extrusioin, through the fabric using 2 6mm hammer insert nuts and 2 M6x20
bolts. 4 brackets on the 8 foot bed is enough to stretch the fabric tight and
prevent any gaps between the extrusion and bed. It should catch anything
without allowing it to go under the machine between the bed and extrusion. I
left about 1/4 inch of fabric hanging off of the edge to butt up against the
spoil board.

![20190121_070630.jpg](/img/20190121_070630.jpg)

Now I have protection. Simple, inexpensive and hopefully prevents having to
remove this gantry before I need to. I have tried to use a few different
things to help in the past. I made a bracket with brushes that I hoped would
wipe the rail as it cut, it kind of worked. It also took up space on the
gantry and was not easy to remove when needed. Blowing the rails off
constantly is another method I have seen online, but the expense and the noise
prevented me from trying that. This works.

![20190120_112456.jpg](/img/20190120_112456.jpg)

